so the crocs  have  a cancer  diagnosis  almost immediately after they made this  diagnosis public  they received twenty thousand dollars in  donations from their supporters  i think this instance i think this case  study  provides us with a moment to really stop  and reflect  on the messaging  and the misinformation that the vegan  movement  is built on in the 21st century because  the truth is  veganism  is not a miracle diet  veganism is no more the miracle cure for  cancer  than it is the miracle cure  for  obesity cancer is a preventable illness  that is caused by animal products and  can be treated through a whole foods  vegan diet it doesn't matter if you  disagree with science because science  will always be correct and it seems i  was correct because pete got cancer  again  oh  so sad and before you all start calling  me a sociopath as some sort of attempt  to insult me how about you consider the  fact that furious pete makes fun of the  suffering and death of the animals he  eats on a daily basis so i don't see why  i shouldn't make a joke about his  suffering and death so who would like a  haha you're gonna die of cancer t-shirt  today i attended the funeral of my  little pal lewis it was a tough one he  left us at the tender age of seven and i  guess that kid's louis  so blah blah blah  cancer is an almighty killer and i wish  there was a cure for it i for one will  be supporting team lewis in the future  and hope you guys will too  one day cancer will be a thing of the  past and the memory of lewis will live  on in the cure when it's  found school shooting 18 kids killed  wow  [Music]  it's pretty good usually they only get  like four or five i guess i'll look into  that  huh  [Music]  that's right  he's the goat  have an animal that's bigger than you  with horns uh just smash you oh yes  [ __ ] get him  get that stupid kid  yes don't let him breed  oh this is great  oh my god that goat is [ __ ] getting  him  holy [ __ ]  it's not the [ __ ] goat's fault what  are you doing  yeah i don't know how that kid isn't  dead yet oh my god that's too bad yeah  use your kid as a human shield good job  dude  as if it's the goat's fault [ __ ] those  parents  oh dude those goats have to uh have an  uprising against those little shits kill  all their children so they don't breed  and then [ __ ] murder the  parents in their sleep  [ __ ] those people  it's too bad that uh kids survive they  shouldn't be allowed to reproduce  there isn't any kind of  central committee that decides who does  and who doesn't get to become  a car salesman and yet a certain kind of  person ends up being recruited to become  a car salesman a certain kind of  behavior is rewarded  once that person lands the job of  becoming a car salesman and there is a  cultural pattern across the united  states of america around the world  of what kind of person a car salesman  might be have you ever worked as a car  salesman  have you ever even considered becoming a  car salesman have you ever stopped and  looked in the mirror and asked yourself  do i have  what it takes to become a car salesman  well guess what  there's no conspiracy there's no central  planning there's no board of people who  make the decision about who does and  doesn't get to become a vegan activist  who doesn't doesn't get to promote this  diet  and yet  nevertheless  a certain kind of person gets recruited  and a certain kind of person gets  rewarded  once they put themselves in that  leadership position what kind of person  the kind of person who's willing to make  grossly exaggerated and dishonest health  claims sort of person who's willing to  claim  that veganism is a miracle cure for  cancer that can be used for treatment of  cancer once you've got cancer or that  it's going to prevent you from getting  cancer the sort of deeply dishonest  immoral person like richard you just saw  like vegan gains  who's willing to claim that cancer  is a preventable disease caused  by meat products in the diet period  quite quite a claim rich  and as i warned for years we now have a  movement that's been thoroughly  discredited  by its leaders taking its name and  dragging it through the mud um what  advice would you give yourself at the  beginning of your whole food plant-based  journey  uh for you  uh it would be  stop judging yourself so hard yeah i was  gonna say like be nice to yourself  remember that you have spent x amount of  years building up certain habits  and it's hard to break those habits  somebody commented on uh one of our  instagram posts and said why are you fat  if you eat a plant-based diet so like  why are you so fat basically  um i responded with this is my response  that i gave on instagram  i said we lost a ton of weight after  switching to a whole food plant-based  diet in 2018. we are fat now because  throughout 2020 to 2021 we had a lot of  ups and downs with depression and  slipping back into our old eating habits  that we each have formed over 30 plus  years here on earth like i just  mentioned  uh but we refuse to give up and let the  old habit those old habits win instead  we continue eating plant-based and have  actually been losing weight since  january prior to this cancer diagnosis  the crocs already were an interesting  case study demonstrating what's wrong  with the vegan movement and how social  media makes it  wronger for lack of word you know  many people on the internet have the  impression that vegans are tremendously  attractive  slender athletic demographic of people  and that's because they're only looking  at the most popular youtubers on the  internet the most popular  instagram models celebrities what have  you and the irony is that distorting  myopic bias  it would be just as true if you were  looking at carnivores there are people  eating the 100 meat carnivore diet who  have very impressive bodies here on  youtube have very impressive bodies on  instagram it seems like if that's what  you google around for if that's true  search for if those are the links you  click on it seems like all you're  looking at are tremendously attractive  youthful  beautiful people who eat this carnivore  diet guess what  every single other fad diet has enough  beautiful people representing it or  misrepresenting it to create this  illusion i was here on youtube eight  years ago saying guess what if you  actually go to the animal rights  conferences to meet vegan activists face  to face if you actually go to more  academic meetings people with phds who  are coming to present papers about  veganism if you meet people in any vegan  forum that isn't pre-selected for the  most attractive the most athletic people  in the movement what you're going to  notice right away is that we're not an  especially good-looking group of people  we're not even an especially slender or  athletic group of people i said the um  the vegan group at my university vegan  student group and i would say it's true  at any university if you go and attend  they're not the best looking students at  the university they're not the most  athletic or the most slender or the most  impressive in any way you got a bunch of  real normal looking schlumels it's not  a miracle diet  it's not the cure to cancer  and it's not even  the cure for obesity and what the crocs  demonstrate in their weight loss journey  what they demonstrated by losing weight  rapidly on veganism an early stage  when it was basically for them a fad  diet and then gaining the weight back  again so in the man's case going from  500 pounds  down to maybe 300 pounds and then up to  400 pounds again  in broad brush drugs  what they demonstrate is that these  claims that veganism  is a miracle cure for all that ails you  it's just a massive distraction from the  fact that the qualities you really need  to lose weight and sustain a healthy  lifestyle  they're mental  they're intellectual they're emotional  their qualities of self-discipline and  if you have that kind of self-discipline  right you can look attractive you can  have a healthy body on any diet  and if you don't have those qualities if  you're lacking those qualities you can't  make  any diet work for you now they attribute  their relapsing into eating unhealthy  food and unhealthy quantities of food  they attribute it to  depression depression means  many different things  to many different people and i only know  what they tell me so i don't know a  whole lot  like most people on youtube on instagram  on the internet  they choose to only  present to you  their successes their triumphs there's a  whole lot of information  about the period of time which they were  losing weight  feeling great we're so happy and  enthusiastic about the vegan diet  and then there's this big gap  reflecting on or explaining how or why  they went back to eating animal products  to eating meat dairy and eggs we don't  know we just get this statement that  they went back to eating the way they  used to they relapsed into eating a  non-vegan diet and then  gained a lot of  weight back right we're only kind of  getting  one half of the story  documented and that's also what you're  going to see with the success stories  for the carnivore diet with the success  stories for the taco diet for any other  fad diet that comes or goes and i don't  think any of these people intended to  mislead  the public  i think they intended to mislead  themselves  i think even people who are really  emotionally crippled who are dealing  with  depression whatever that might mean to  them when they use the word they want to  create an image of themselves on youtube  on instagram an image that they hope  will reach thousands of people and last  for all time and image of themselves as  highly motivated self-disciplined  emotionally healthy happy people  but an image of themselves that  ultimately is just a lie it does have to  be weird for people who pull in like you  know now to our videos and pull them up  and like they're like wait they're  watching the first one and they're like  wait now they're like you know  better than they were before and it's  very confusing um but like we say it's  an adventure it's not a you know  overnight thing um but the truth is like  we have been you know honest and  whatever we went back to our old eating  habits that were not vegan during  certain times of the last like not  actually uh since this year  this year we've been doing really great  since january have been super super  awesome whereas like over the few years  before that when we were gaining weight  we weren't eating plant-based 100  percent we have no balance yeah there  what we'd have like oh yeah we'd have  like a week or two we would do really  good and then it'd be like oh  everything's just back to depression and  using food as a crutch and all that kind  of stuff would you  be vegan  if you had absolutely certain knowledge  that you were going to die of cancer  anyway  what would you say to someone  what would you say to your own father  or your own grandfather  if you had managed to cajole them  into adopting a vegan diet with a  totally insincere  exaggerated distorted version of the  scientific claim  that if they would just follow these  steps you should have them if they would  eat this diet assiduously everyday  they would never develop cancer at all  what does that accomplish do you want a  movement  that is comprised of  people doing the right things  for the wrong reasons do you want a  movement that is led by  leaders  who are doing  the right thing for the wrong reasons  and how are you going to feel  when your father  or your grandfather  turns to you and says hey they've been  eating this vegan diet  maybe for 10 years maybe for 20 years  because you push them into it  and now they find out  they're dying of cancer anyway there's  more than one answer possible to that  question  some of you in the audience will say  that if you had certain knowledge you  were going to die of cancer anyway you'd  go out and smoke as many cigarettes as  you could  drink as much alcohol eat as much pork  bacon steak  there are some of you who sincerely feel  that you would live each day as if it  were your last if you knew that cancer  was coming to get you and that a vegan  diet couldn't do a goddamn thing to help  you  well guess what  the fate and the future of the vegan  movement  it rests entirely with people like  myself  who if they knew they were going to die  of cancer  will continue to be sober anyways would  continue to be self-disciplined anyway  and would continue to eat a vegan diet  even if there were no benefit to me  at all